add LLM (#14)
Lawrencium77/quant_blog: Fast and Accurate GPU Quantization for Transformers.md

The process is then relatively straightforward: we calibrate each QDQ node, and subsequently finetune the model parameters. However, there is a complication related to backpropagation: the quantization operation is non-differentiable. In practice, we simply ignore this issue by treating  the derivative of each QDQ node as the identity function. This assumption is referred to as the **Straight-Through Estimator**.[^fn1]

> ## Quantization Research

Reviewer: Could we consider a different title? Something like "Other Approaches to Accuracy Improvements", or something like that? I think "Quantization Research" is a bit vague

Author: ```suggestion
## Alternatives to QAT
```

For situations where QAT is insufficient or undesirable, other approaches can be considered.

> Recent research paper LLM.int8() [13] highlighted the existance of extreme outliers in large language models, which severely degrades accuracy when quantizing to INT8. Their approach was to decompose each matrix multiplication into 8-bit and 16-bit parts, where the wider range FP16 was used in order to preserve the outliers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recent research paper LLM.int8() [13] highlighted the existence of extreme outliers in large language models, which severely degrades accuracy when quantizing to INT8. Their solution was to decompose each matrix multiplication into 8-bit and 16-bit parts, where the wider range FP16 was used to preserve outliers.
```

> Recent research paper LLM.int8() [13] highlighted the existance of extreme outliers in large language models, which severely degrades accuracy when quantizing to INT8. Their approach was to decompose each matrix multiplication into 8-bit and 16-bit parts, where the wider range FP16 was used in order to preserve the outliers.

Reviewer: Nit: Can we maintain the numbering of the references according to the order in which we reference them? So this would make LLM.INT8() reference number 7, Smoothquant reference number 8, etc

![](_attachments/Pasted%20image%2020230424140657.png)

> This yielded promising results, but also introduced a peformance overhead so is largely focussed on memory savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This yielded promising results, but also introduced a performance overhead so is largely focused on memory savings.
```

> Another paper which we found to give practical benefits, was SmoothQuant [7]. They again focus on the effect of outliers but importantly, SmoothQuant can be applied **offline**, meaning there is **no performance overheard** when running inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another paper that we found to give practical benefits was SmoothQuant [7]. They again focus on the effect of outliers but importantly, SmoothQuant can be applied **offline**, meaning there is **no performance overheard** when running inference.
```
